# Snake
**Starring Boris the Snake, as the protagonist, as he takes leaps of faith jumping
from board to board, speedily dodging himself and eating food to replenish his soul
reserves. All hail BORIS THE SNAKE!**

Embedded Systems Assignment for ENCE260, Semester 2 2017, University of Canterbury. <br>
Code written by Jozef Crosland and Thomas Morrison. <br>
Designed specifically for the UC Fun Kit 4.

## How to Play

Snake has 3 modes to it, which cycle through during game play. These are the title
screen, game mode and end screen. The game initially starts on the title screen,
awaiting for the navswitches on both boards to be pushed, after which the game begins.

The goal is to work collaberativly to eat as many food bits as possible and to
avoid running into yourself for as long as possible. Food bits spawn as a single
dot on one screen and will respawn on the alternate screen once it has been eaten.
In this way, players need to look at the other to coordinate their movements to
move towards the food bits while avoiding collisions. This is especially a challenge
when Boris becomes long!

After a collision, the game has ended and the score will display, showing the total
number of food bits eaten by both players. The navswitch will await the push on both
boards to return to the title screen, where the game begins again. This game cycle
continues indefinitely for as long as the players desire. All the score information
is reset at the beginning of a new game.

## Compilation Instructions

This repository must be placed in the assignment directory of the [ence260 repository](https://github.com/puqeko/ence260)
to access dependancies

```
ence260/assignment/team114/
```
    
To compile and download, plug in the Fun kit, and run

```
make program
```

from the above directory.

All required modules are contained within `./lib`.
`game.c` is the main program the runs the game and is dependent on the said
modules in the 'lib' directory. The Makefile is also required to be present in `team114`.
The `avr-gcc` compiler, which is specific to the AVR Atmel microcontrollers, is
required to compile these files into an executable and to load onto the ATmega32U2 microcontroller.

The UC Electrical and Computer Engineering Wikipedia page contains instructions
for isntalling the avr-gcc compiler and other required ancillary software here on
the [AVR compilation tools page](http://ecewiki.elec.canterbury.ac.nz/mediawiki/index.php/AVR_compilation_tools).

You will need to be a staff member of UC or a student to access these, or have
permission from them to access this wikipedia page.

In the bash terminal, type `make` in the `team114` directory to compile the source
code to generate the relocatable object files. Type `make program` to then 
compile onto the UC Fun Kit. This will link the object files and generate the hex executable file.

Ensure that the reset button has been pressed on the UCFK so that the device is
seen as present in the USB ports on your computer. 

A Makefile can be autogenerated with the command

```
python3 automake.py > Makefile
```
